LP	A WORLD Bank report entitled Global Economic Prospects for 2007: Managing the next wave of globalisation goes beyond the topics indicated by the title. Although its estimates for Indian economic growth this year as well as for the next few years are somewhat lower than what official statistics in India indicate, the real thrust of the report is on the likely achievements of today's strongly performing economies India and China. These countries would contribute more to global economic growth than the rich countries. Globalisation could spur faster growth in higher average incomes and cause a steep fall in the number of poor. Yet between countries as well as within countries it could exacerbate income inequalities and cause tensions.  
TD	Rapidly integrating job markets could lead to job losses among the unskilled and semi-skilled workforce and they might be left behind in the economic race. The next wave of globalisation could further stress the global environment. All countries will have to work together to meet the threat of some common problems, say the avian flu or climate change. On a more positive side, by 2030 India along with many other countries will see a sharp rise in the number of people graduating to `global middle class'. However, there will be a price to pay for unbridled consumerism. It is all a question of inclusive growth. Even after 25 years basic issues of economic growth are likely to remain much the same.  
LP	All political parties must work to end farmers' distress. Agricultural progress must be seen in its human dimension rather than in statistical terms.  
TD	2007 MARKS the 60th year of our Independence and the beginning of the 11th Five Year Plan. The achievements of the country during the past 60 years are many, including adherence to a democratic system of governance and avoiding famines of the kind that were frequent during the colonial rule. The most prominent inadequacy relates to human development as measured by indicators such as child and adult malnutrition, poverty, illiteracy, infant and maternal mortality rates, and access to sanitation and clean drinking water. Nearly 70 per cent of our population is still rural with farming as the principal source of livelihood. The approach paper to the XI Plan recently approved by the National Development Council mentions, "economic growth has failed to be sufficiently inclusive, particularly after the mid-1990s. Agriculture lost its growth momentum from that point on and subsequently entered a near crisis situation, reflected in farmer suicides in some areas." Unless the country regains its lost momentum in this sector, there will be widespread agrarian distress and the prospect of reverting to a ship-to-mouth existence. The National Commission on Farmers (NCF) has pointed out that while public policy and investment triggered progress earlier, policy inadequacy and investment decline have taken us to the farmer suicide and food import era. Several significant steps have been taken during the last two years to remedy the situation, but their implementation has been slow. The time has come for the leaders of all major political parties to re-visit the advice given by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1947 when he said, "everything else can wait, but not agriculture," and adopt the ending of farmers' distress as a national common minimum programme. Confucius wrote 2,500 years ago, "Despite the many accomplishments of mankind, we owe our existence to a six-inch layer of topsoil and the fact that it rains." It is time we realise the wisdom behind this statement and introduce public policies, which can promote land care in its totality, including the conservation of prime farmland for agriculture. Soil health cards will enable farmers to participate actively in the soil fertility enhancement movement. For example, provision of deficient micronutrients such as zinc, boron, and sulphur leads to a 30 to 70 per cent increased yield in many dryland crops. Organic manures should receive the same subsidy or support as mineral fertilizers since soil organic matter content is often low.The second major step relates to rainwater harvesting, aquifer recharge, and conjunctive use of surface and ground water. The Union Ministry of Water Resources has proposed the observance of 2007-08 as the year for more income and crop per drop of water. A detailed strategy has been prepared for this purpose for implementation from June 1, 2007, to May 31, 2008. The effective implementation of this programme will help to shift the emphasis from the quantitative to the qualitative aspects of water use. The System of Rice Intensification, now getting popular in Tamil Nadu, can help save considerable quantities of water. What is proposed to be demonstrated in one village in every block of the country is the benefit of synergy among crop, water, nutrients, and implements.Thirdly, timely availability of credit at an affordable rate of interest and the wider adoption of insurance will help to reduce farmers' distress. Agricultural insurance now covers only about four per cent of farmers. Risks are increasing in farming due to meteorological and marketing factors. The position is likely to get worse in the years ahead due to global warming and climate change. Studies in the agrarian hot spot areas of Vidharbha have shown that credit is needed not only for agriculture but also for digging tube wells, healthcare, and domestic needs such as marriage. Integrated group insurance packages, with low transaction cost and the village as the unit of assessment, are needed to save farmers from moneylenders. The NCF has recommended the provision of credit to farm families at four per cent interest as well as the issue of Kisan Credit Cards to women. Also, the credit cycle should cover four to five years in drought-prone areas. The proposal for financial inclusion should be converted into reality on the antyodaya principle.Fourthly, the spread of appropriate technologies and the inputs needed for applying those technologies are essential for good harvests. Market-linked farming systems, diversification, and value addition will involve concurrent attention to livestock, fisheries, and fodder and feed production. Crop-livestock integration helps to increase income as well as household nutrition security. Further, it facilitates organic farming. The poorer the household, the greater is the need for multiple sources of income. Similarly, the smaller the farm, the greater is the need for marketable surplus through higher productivity.Our country has immense potential for promoting integrated systems of farming involving appropriate crops and varieties as well as large and small ruminants. The poultry industry is growing at a fast pace and more efforts are needed for producing feed grains and for establishing fodder and feed banks to support backyard animal husbandry. The green revolution in wheat and rice in the late 1960s, and the milk revolution later were both triggered though concurrent attention to all the links in the production-consumption-commerce chain. Key centralised services were introduced to support decentralised production. We owe much to the late C. Subramaniam and to Varghese Kurien for this management innovation.Experience in the heartland of the green revolution, namely, Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, has shown that intensive rice-wheat crop rotation has led to the depletion of the aquifer and the spread of alkalinity and salinity. Therefore, both in the traditional fertile crescent region of north-west India, as well as in the emerging fertile crescent of Bihar, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, West Bengal, and Assam, there is need to promote conservation farming and green agriculture. Conservation farming is based on soil health enhancement and efficient water management. Green agriculture involves the adoption of integrated pest management, integrated nutrient supply, and other ecologically sound techniques. For a population-rich but land-hungry country like ours, an integrated system of conservation farming and green agriculture is the pathway to sustainable food security. Unfortunately, extension systems are in a disarray.We should tap the opportunities provided by the panchayat raj institutions and modern information and communication technologies to overcome the knowledge deficit in rural areas. The Gyan Chaupal or the Village Knowledge Centre based on an integrated application of the internet, cable TV, community radio, cell phone, and local newspaper can ensure last mile and last person connectivity in knowledge and skill empowerment. Expenses incurred on such natural resource conservation and knowledge empowerment measures do not attract the trade distorting provisions of the WTO.The issue of prices Finally, farmers need for their survival assured and remunerative prices. Today input costs are rising and output prices are falling. The uneconomical nature of farming is the single most important cause of the agrarian crisis. Industrialised countries extend substantial support to their large farmers, since they know that farming will become extinct if such support is not extended. We have a difficult situation since unlike industrialised countries, where only three to four per cent of the population are in farming, agriculture is the primary occupation of two-thirds of our population. The least we should do is to provide a minimum support price (MSP) that is 50 per cent more than the cost of production and make purchases for the Public Distribution System and Food Security Reserve at the market prices together with an incentive bonus.Private-public partnership is prescribed as a solution for the economic problems of small farmers. Vidharbha is a test case to measure its ethical dimension. In contrast to the prosperity of textile mills, cotton farmers there live in debt and distress. According to a Maharashtra Government Report, the MSP during 2005-06 for cotton was Rs.1,760 as against the cost of cultivation of Rs.2,585 per quintal. The suffering of the rainfed cotton growers of Vidharbha can be ended if the members of the Cotton Mills Federation visit Vidharbha and extend a little of their prosperity to them. Suicide-generating imports of highly subsidised cotton from abroad should give way to redressing the economic problems of our cotton farmers.In farming it is said "we reap as we sow." Whenever investment in irrigation and agriculture goes up, as during the Sixth Five Year Plan period (1980-85), agricultural growth rate tends to be even higher than the general GDP growth rate. In the past, we have had several "dream budgets" for industry and the share market. Is it too much to expect that in the 60th year of our independence, there will be a dream budget for the 70 crore of our population depending on agriculture for their survival? The important additional benefits of such a farmer-centric dream budget will be the strengthening of internal security and external sovereignty.We need a shift in mindset to one that measures agricultural progress in its human dimension rather than in statistical terms. The draft National Policy for Farmers' proposed by the NCF for adoption during 2007 calls for the mainstreaming of the human dimension in all agricultural strategies and programmes. The adoption and implementation of such a policy for farmers should be a pan-political parties' initiative during 2007.  
LP	Annamalai University to host the annual event this time With the dawn of the New Year, it is once again the season of the Indian Science Congress. This time, it is the turn of Tamil Nadu, more particularly the Annamalai University at Chidambaram, to play host to the annual event that is eagerly looked forward to by scientists and science lovers. The focal theme for this year's conclave is "Planet earth." The discussions are slated to centre round issues ranging from climate change and natural disasters at the global level to the challenges of forecasting the monsoon and the ever-increasing concern for sustainable development.  
TD	Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will inaugurate the conclave to be held from January 3-7. President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam will inaugurate the Children's Science Congress and address the gathering on January 5. This will be the 94th session of the Indian Science Congress.Two Nobel laureates, Aaron Ciechanover of the Centre for Cancer and Vascular Biology Research from Israel and Harmut Michel of Max Planck Institute of Biophysik, Germany, are slated to participate in it.Indian scientists scheduled to participate include Chairman of the Science Advisory Council to the Prime Minister C.N.R. Rao; Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India R. Chidambaram; Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy, Anil Kakodkar; and agricultural scientist, M.S. Swaminathan.Raghunath Anand Mashelkar, who has retired as Director-General of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research after serving the apex body as its head for over 11 years, is also slated to give a public lecture and so is Devendra Lal of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in the U.S. and Emeritus Professor of the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics Govind Swarup. Prof. Swarup is scheduled to give a talk on "Life in the universe: are we alone?" The conclave will include 21 theme sessions.  
LP	For its societal and academic activities One batch of Indian Institute of Technology - Madras alumni plans to raise money to aid their alma mater.   
TD	On the occasion of the `silver reunion' of 1981 batch of the IIT, the old graduates decided to raise Rs.1.3 crore for the societal and academic activities of the Institute.They announced this at the inaugural of the reunion meet last week.Panel discussion. The inaugural session was followed by a panel discussion on the topic of "future of technology and its impact on our lives".The participants in the discussion spoke on aspects such as world energy trends, IT and its impact, aerospace, management systems and climate change.The panelists were: Prof. Ramayya Krishnan of Carnegie Mellon University, R.Seetharaman (ExxonMobil), .Ganapathi [JPL], Dr.Sailesh Rao (Phyten Technologies) and Ravi Sankar (Satyam Infosys).The keynote session was attended by the Institute Director M.S. Ananth, besides the Deans of Academic Courses, Planning and Students. A special invitee was the newly-elected President of the IIT Madras Alumni Association, Mr.Srini Nageshwar.The appreciative audience included, in addition to alumni and their families, many current and retired faculty members of the Institute.   
LP	Top scientists from across nation and abroad to attend. The stage is set for the 94th edition of the Indian Science Congress beginning on Wednesday.  
TD	The congregation of leading scientists from across the country and abroad will deliberate on how to safeguard the Earth from natural and man-made disasters.The venue, Annamalai University at Chidambaram, is appropriate. In the past few years, it had witnessed a series of natural disasters such as drought and tsunami followed by unprecedented floods. The theme is `Planet Earth.' The scientists will delve deep into the causes of the disasters and find remedies to make the Earth a better place. The world is facing major problems of population growth on the one hand and the depleting resources on the other. And humanity has to cope up with disasters.16 themes. The organisers — Annamalai University and the Indian Science Congress Association — have chosen 16 themes for discussions including energy security; mineral, water and ocean resources; climate change and monsoon forecast; natural hazards; anthropogenic hazard; education; synergy of science and technology; space applications, nanotechnology; biotechnology; agriculture; biodiversity; mysteries of the earth and medical sciences.Top scientists including C.N.R.Rao, Scientific Adviser to Prime Minister; R.A. Mashelkar, former Director-General of the CSIR; R.Chidambaram, Principal Scientific Adviser; Anil Kakodkar, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission; T.Ramasamy, Department of Science and Technology; P.S.Goel, Secretary, Department of Earth Sciences; Madhavan Nair, Chairman of the ISRO; M.S. Swaminathan will take part.Nobel laureates Aaron Ciechanover of Israel and Nartnuit Michel of Germany and 100 foreign delegates would also attend.Arrangements..Four food villages are in place to cater for the culinary tastes of the delegates. A security cordon is thrown around the venue.Hotels and lodges are under surveillance.According to the organisers, the estimated expenditure of the congress would be around Rs. 6 crore, of which the participating Central departments would bear a part of the cost. The remaining funds are expected to come from the State Government.  
LP	Global environment-friendly technologies must be available to all  
TD	Study impact of climate change on Indian monsoon Do focussed research on water, food and energy Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Wednesday reiterated that developed countries must bear more responsibility in meeting the challenges of climate change and promoting sustainable development by altering their consumption patterns. The "developing world cannot accept a freeze on global inequity." The measures the global community took to protect the environment and deal with climate change should be equitable in their impact on the development prospect of the developing countries. Referring to the growing debate on climate change, at the inaugural function of the 94th session of the Indian Science Congress here, he said the environment-friendly technologies being developed across the world must be shared and made available to all. Find new pathways to growth "We can and must use the inventiveness and ingenuity of our knowledge to find new pathways to growth. But this must be a shared effort. It must be an effort that enables the poor to improve their quality of life, their well-being, their consumption levels, without being forced to pay the price for the profligacy and excessive consumption of the rich and the super rich." The Prime Minister urged scientists to study the possible impact of climate change on the Indian monsoon. "We are keenly aware of the looming effects of climate change. But the science of climate change is still nascent and uncertain. That is why Indian scientists must engage in exploring the links between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change." There should be focussed research on issues of water, food and energy. "Of the many challenges our planet is facing, three are vital to the survival of life on Earth. These are the availability of water, food and energy." In particular, he called for research towards finding efficient, economic and ecologically sustainable ways of using, conserving and replenishing water, developing new technologies for harnessing nuclear, solar, wind, biofuel and other alternative sources of energy, and launching a second green revolution, which would be more holistic than the first, covering forest conservation and management, sustainable environmental protection, water conservation, utilisation of herbs and plants and improvement in livestock productivity.   
LP	It calls for mapping of area through remote sensing: Swaminathan. Special Economic Zones (SEZs) should not be set up in an ad hoc manner; the exercise calls for mapping of the chosen area through remote sensing, agricultural scientist M.S. Swaminathan told a press conference here on Thursday.   
TD	Mapping would help in finding the true biological potential of the area, and based on that development process could be taken up.He said farmers with little land holdings were struggling for lack of advice. However, the need arose for diversification of employment opportunities through both on-farm and non-farm sectors, and this called for judicious utilisation of land.As the Minimum Support Price offered only a low margin, farmers seemed to be in perennial debt, thanks to the vagaries of weather. The MSP should provide for at least a 50 per cent margin over and above the cost of production, and a farmer-centric marketing approach should be adopted.About genetically modified (GM) crops, Dr. Swaminathan said that in India, the Government had approved only Bt cotton. While the European Union insisted that GM crops would not be allowed, American consumers did not seem concerned because they had confidence in their regulatory mechanism, which would impose heavy penalty on those raising harmful crops. Such a thing was yet to happen in India.Dr. Swaminathan called for setting up `village knowledge centres' to educate farmers on biotechnology and GM crops.Climate change.Later, delivering a lecture on `Climate change and food security' in connection with the 94th Indian Science Congress, he cautioned that an increase in temperature by four degree Celsius or more was likely to affect global food production and displace hundreds of millions of people. He suggested raising bioshields against natural disasters, and cited the instance of mangroves lessening the impact of the December 2004 tsunami.